All right, so let's move ahead
further and the next topic that
we want to cover in our Python
series is going to be another
famous topic, which is known as
how we can actually access the
base class.
So accessing base class, this is
a really fun topic because you
learn so many things with this one.
So I'll walk you through
with this one.
All right, in order to understand
this, there are a couple of ways
where you do actually do,
something known as code duplication.
So code duplication, and we
really want to avoid that.
There are a couple of ways.
There is an explicit call and there
is something known as the super.
So first of all there
is a code duplication.
The second one is known as
explicit call, little bit
difficult to pronounce that.
And the last one which is using
a method, known as super,
and it's actually a method.
So all of these methods are a way how
you can access your base class if
you're trying to do the inheritance.
And again, there is no right or
wrong, it all depends on situations
and there are usual trade offs.
But most of the time you're going to
see this method being taught quite
a lot and is being used quite a lot.
And there are reasons because it's
simpler, it's easier, and that's
the way how it actually works.
So let's go ahead and write
some code for this one.
We are going to go ahead and create
a new file and call this one as 07
and this one is base class.
So let's call this one
as base class Python.
It's going to be fairly simple.
I'll just turn off my AI here
so it doesn't bother us.
So for example, let's just say
you have a simple class, we call
this one as chai, as we have
been calling for so long, this.
And we simply go ahead and define a,
constructor here, which is init,
Just like that we pass on the self,
but apart from the self, you also
pass on what type of this chai is,
and of course type with an
underscore.
Without that it doesn't work.
And you also go ahead
and pass on that.
What's the strength of this chai?
Is it really too hard?
Is it easy, normal, whatever
you want to go with that.
And also what I'll do is I'll
say self type a new variable
which will get the value
from the type, just like that.
And we'll also get
the self.self.strength,
if I can write that.
There we go.
Strength is going to get
the value from strength.
All right, so this
is our basic class.
You have seen this many times.
Now let's just say you define another
class and you say this one is
gingerchie, which also takes kind
of inherit from the chai itself.
Just like this, the syntax.
And we again go ahead and define
a constructor for us init.
There we go.
And as you can see this
automatically takes the type,
the strength and it calls the super.
We don't want to do that.
We want to go with the classic way.
So I'll just go ahead
and remove this.
We'll definitely talk
about the super, the auto
completion of that.
We take couple of parameter,
the self, the type one,
the strength and we also take one
more which is going to be
in this case the spice level.
All right, so how do we go ahead
and define this kind of thing?
So first of all the two common
things are going to be copy pasted.
So yes, you have
to write that code again.
I'm just going to go ahead and copy
paste this and then we are
going to go ahead and say self,
spice level and that will get
the value from spice level.
All right.
Is this correct code?
Yes, absolutely correct.
Is there anything wrong in this one?
No, absolutely nothing wrong in this.
It's just little bit
of the duplication of the code.
This thing was not available
in my top class, so
again no problem there.
But this one is actually a little bit
of a code duplication.
And that's what I said,
code duplication.
This is exactly what I mean to say.
You can inherit that,
you can write your own constructor,
but you are actually repeating
the code quite a lot.
So I can just comment this
and try out another way
of doing this exact same thing.
Let's just say we go ahead
and define the class again
and we say we want to make another
ginger chai which will inherit
from the chai just like that.
And this time what we're going
to do is we are going
to create another constructor.
Let's just say initial and I'll
auto select this again we will
come back onto the super.
Just ignore this for a moment.
I'll say strength again, spice level.
But this time instead of just doing
everything manually, we are going
to call the constructor from this
chai and we can just go ahead and
borrow his constructor and we can
say you obviously get the self
value.
You obviously we go ahead and pass on
this type of as well as we go ahead
and pass on this strength as well.
All right.
So at least the couple of values
that were initially passed
to my constructor, I'm just
going ahead and passing them up.
But one more thing that I have to
do is known as self dot, spicelevel
spicelevel and that's going
to get a value from the spice level.
So this is also another
way, another syntax.
You're going to see them a lot.
It's not like it's a bad syntax,
it's being used quite a lot.
So this is also a syntax.
But what you're going
to see this is explicit call.
So you are explicitly going
ahead and calling the constructor
of the class from
where you are inheriting.
Is it good?
Yes, of course it is good.
But there is a better way
of doing the things.
So we're going to write that again
for the third time and probably the
last time we again go ahead and say
class and this time we can actually
take an advantage of the auto
completion.
So gingerchie, which goes ahead
and take the constructor or
an inheritance from the chai itself.
And, and this time if I go ahead
and define a constructor which is
init and I can actually go ahead
and use this exact same thing.
Now notice what you will notice here.
Compare this to line number 15
to 17 and line number 21 and 22.
Here we are simply saying init.
So this init is the start
of the constructor.
But what we are saying is super.
The super is a method which
instead of saying chai.
You can actually just super says
just like this.
And this automatically means
that I want to call the constructor
of the base class.
This is known as base class as well
or parent class as well.
And I'm going to go ahead and pass
on these values up here.
Now surely, for sure you have
to write this piece of code
on your own because now you're
accepting more values that
the constructor actually takes.
So if you go ahead and take that
value, copy that and place it up
here and what you'll notice that
yeah, this one and this one are
pretty similar, but this one is an
explicit call because you're making
this chai as a call.
While on the other hand
the super is a common method,
which is expected that, hey,
you kind of know this method.
So that's what it is.
And as you can see, this is exactly
what we studied about the accessing
of the base class
can be done by the code duplication.
Surely not the good way you can do
that explicit call or the super you
usual method which people
prefer to use is the super one.
But again, there is no harm
in the explicit method as well.
So I hope this video gave some
added advantage to your knowledge.
It's something that we've discussed,
quite in depth, and let's go
ahead and catch up in next video.